---
layout: post
title: "하이퍼레저 network 올리는 방법"
date: 2019-09-23
excerpt: "network up"
tag:
- BlockChain
- RaspberryPI
- Embeded
category: [FinalProject]
comments: true

---

# Hyperprov - Blockchain based data provenance using Hyperledger Fabric
Hyperprov is a general purpose provenance framework for data provenance based on the permissioned blockchain Hyperledger Fabric. The system have been run for experiments and evaluation on both commodity desktop hardware and Raspberry Pi devices.

A thesis related to this project can be found [here](https://munin.uit.no/handle/10037/15780).

## Getting started
Before getting started make sure you have the required depdencies. We recommend Go version 1.11.1, Docker 18.09.1, Docker-compose 1.22.0, and NodeJS v8.15.0. For installation help see the install section below. 
### Set up Docker Compose
To start off we need to configure the docker-compose file `docker-compose-cli.yaml` to orchestrate the devices and paths. The most important are to change paths to this directory, as all devices need to have the `Hyperprov` directory cloned and available. By default it is `/data/Hyperprov` but if you have it elsewere, simply do a find and replace for the path in `docker-compose-cli.yaml`. 

The devices used need to be specified in the docker-compose file to match the containers running on them. There are six containers for this here four node setup, whereas your head-node should run both peer, orderer and fabric-tools. To specify device hostnames change the six `node.hostname == ` entries to match your device(s). 

Lastly the docker image pointers of each service must be set to match the devices architecture eg. `ptunstad/fabric-ccenv:arm64-1.4.1` or `hyperledger/fabric-ccenv:amd64-1.4.0`.

#### Docker Swarm
The solution uses Docker Swarm to manage multiple nodes from a single device for easy management. To start a swarm run `docker swarm init` on your "main" node. This will be the same node you use to start and shut down the network. This will return a command along the lines of `docker swarm join --token SWMTKN-1-xxxxxxxx 192.168.1.xxx:2377` which you need to call on all your other nodes to join the network. You can verify that all nodes have been joined by running `docker node ls` on the initial node. The initial node should also initialize an overlay network by running `docker network create -d overlay --attachable hyperledger-fabric`.

### Start the network
Before you actually run a network you should regenerate your certificates and genesis block, but for a quick up and running test you can use the block and certificates provided in this repository. See the section below on how to regenerate this.

Assuming all prerequisites are installed and docker images are downloaded, run:
`docker node ls` to check that all nodes in swarm is up and running.  

To start the network run the command `docker stack deploy --compose-file docker-compose-cli.yaml Hyperprov && docker ps` on your "main" swarm node. 

This will start all containers and run a setup script `script_ds.sh` and `utils.sh` to create channel, join peers, install chaincode and do some tests on query and invoke.To follow the output of this script, get the id of CLI-container from `docker ps` that uses fabric-tools and run `docker logs -f 6e4c43c974e7` where `6e4c43c974e7` is the id of CLI-container.

If you encounter any problems run `docker stack ps Hyperprov --no-trunc` on main swarm node to see useful error messages.  

Shutting down can be done with `docker stack rm Hyperprov ` on main swarm node, this will shut down all nodes in the network and cause it to lose its state.